@node Aliases, Colors, Transfer codes, Configuration
@section Aliases

Just like in the shell, you can create aliases for commands you use
often, with options you like. 

Aliases can be defined in the configuration file or directly
on the command line. Aliases defined on the command line are
only valid in the current session. @ref{alias}.

The default config (see also @ref{Configuration}) includes a number
of useful aliases.

The best way to explain aliases, I think, is to look at some examples:

@menu
* Alias examples::              examples on aliases
@end menu

@c -----------------------------------------------------
@node Alias examples
@subsection Alias examples

@table @samp

@item alias ls "ls -F --color"
Override the command @code{ls} to be expanded to @code{ls -F --color}.
Any arguments given to the new @code{ls} alias will be appended.

@item alias ll "ls -l"
@code{ll} will be expanded to @code{ls -l}, regardless if there is an
alias for plain @code{ls} like the one above. Aliases can't be nested.

@item alias ls list
Override the command @code{ls} to be expanded to the command @code{list}.
This is fine, but will generate a warning;
@code{warning: alias 'ls' shadows a command with the same name},
because the original command @code{ls} is lost and can't be referenced (except
through another alias.)

@item alias lls "! ls"
Provide local file listings through the command @code{lls}.
This alias (along with a number of similar ones), is actually provided in
the default configuration file.

@item alias pls "ls %1 | less"
Create a new command @code{pls}, which lists the contents of a directory and
pages it through the pager @code{less}. The @code{%1} keyword is replaced with
the first argument to @code{pls}, any other arguments will be appended at the
end (to the local @code{less} command.)

@item alias pls "ls %* | $PAGER"
Create a new command @code{pls}, which lists the contents of a directory and
pages it through your favourite pager. Any arguments given to @code{pls} will
be inserted between ls and the pipe because of the @code{%*} keyword. Using
@code{$PAGER} is fine, it is expanded by the ordinary shell.

@item alias rels "cache --touch %*; ls -F --color %*"
Create a new command @code{rels}, which flushes the directories from
the cache before listing them. Two @code{%*} sequences are needed to
insert the arguments at both places.

@end table
