@node Configuration, Bookmarks, The shell, top
@chapter Configuration

Yafc will parse a system-wide configuration file, @file{/etc/yafcrc}
(or whatever you set with the @samp{--sysconfdir} option to the
configure script), first. Then, personal settings are read from
@file{~/.yafc/yafcrc} (overriding the global ones). If none of those
files exists, internal defaults will be used.

The @samp{--dump-rc} option of Yafc can be used to dump the default
configuration file to standard output. You can create your own config
file with the command @code{yafc --dump-rc > ~/.yafc/yafcrc}. You can
customize it with your favourite editor, it should be quite self-explaining if
you read the comments.

Yafc also looks for @file{~/.netrc}, and reads autologin information from
that file. This file is also used by the standard ftp client.

Yafc uses the Readline library to read commands from the terminal, and
Readline can be configured via the @file{~/.inputrc} file. In this file
you can put keybindings and Readline-oriented options. You can use
@kbd{$yafc} for conditional parsing of the @file{~/.inputrc} file.
A sample inputrc file is included in the distribution.

@menu
* Keywords::                    Configuration keywords used
* Prompt codes::                Special codes in the prompts
* Transfer codes::              Special codes in the transfer strings
* Aliases::                     Writing aliases
* Colors::                      Using colors
@end menu

@c =====================================================
@include yafc_keywords.texi

@c =====================================================
@include yafc_codes.texi

@c =====================================================
@include yafc_alias.texi

@c =====================================================
@include yafc_color.texi
