.TH YAFC 1
.SH NAME
yafc - Yet another FTP client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yafc [options]
[\fIproto\fP://][\fIuser\fP[:\fIpassword\fP]@]\fIhostname\fP[:\fIport\fP][/\fIdirectory\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual documents \fBYafc\fP. \fBYafc\fP is quite a powerful ftp
client.  It is a console interface to the ftp protocol. If you're
looking for a nice GUI client, Yafc is not for you. If you, however,
use ftp often and want a fast, powerful, friendly client Yafc is here
for you...
.PP
Some of the features are recursive get/put/ls/rm, nohup transfers,
colored ls, cached directory listings, autologin and bookmarks,
powerful aliases and extensive tab completion.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -a, --anon
Try an anonymous login, ie login as "anonymous" with your email address as
password. Your email address is first looked for in the config file
("anon_password"), then in the $EMAIL environment variable. If it's not
found, a guess is made from your user- and hostname.
.TP
.B -d, --debug
Print all messages sent to/from server.
.TP
.B -D, --dump-rc
Prints the default configuration file to standard output.
.TP
.B -m \fIMECH\fP, --mechanism=\fIMECH\fP
Try security mechanism MECH when logging in to the host specified on the
command line. This will override any 'mech' options in \fIyafcrc\fP or
\fIbookmarks\fP. MECH is a colon-separated string,
supported values are "krb4", "krb5" and "none". The mechanisms are tried in
the order specified.
.TP
.B -n, --norc
Do not read the users configuration file. This will cause yafc to use its default settings.
.TP
.B -p, --noproxy
Do not connect via the proxy. This should be used if connection to a host on
the local network.
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
Do not print the welcome message with copyright information when starting Yafc.
.TP
.B -r \fIFILE\fP, --rcfile=\fIFILE\fP
Read another configuration file.
.TP
.B -t \fIFILE\fP, --trace[=\fIFILE\fP]
Enable creation of trace file. Trace files are mainly for debugging and includes every response
and command Yafc receives/sends. If FILE is specified, use that file instead of the default
trace file (\fI~/.yafc/trace/trace.pid\fP, where pid is the process id number of Yafc.) Trace files can
grow quite large and can safely be deleted.
.TP
.B -u, --noauto
Do not login automagically to the host specified on the command line. You can
still use bookmark aliases, though.
.TP
.B -U, --noalias
As ---noauto, but bookmark aliases is disabled (for host on command line).
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Print all responses received (without response code.)
.TP
.B -w, --wait=\fITIME\fP
Use a different time to wait between connection attempts, in seconds.
This overrides the value set by "connect_wait_time" in the configuration
file.
.TP
.B -W, --workdir=\fIDIR\fP
Use a different working directory for configuration files and
temporary files. Default is \fI~/.yafc\fP.
.TP
.B -V, --version
Print version information on stdout and exit successfully.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Print a short help description on stdout and exit successfully.
.SH SEE ALSO
The full documentation for \fByafc\fP is maintained as a Texinfo
manual.  If the \fBinfo\fP and \fByafc\fP programs are properly
installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B info yafc
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
.SH AUTHOR
Yafc was written by Martin Hedenfalk <mhe@home.se>. This manual
page was created from the Texinfo documentation by Decklin Foster
<decklin@red-bean.com> for the Debian system.
