@node Bookmarks, Kerberos, Configuration, Top
@chapter Bookmarks 

Just like creating bookmarks for web pages in a browser, you can create
bookmarks for ftp sites in Yafc. These can later be used for
autologin to that site.

When connected to an ftp site, use the @code{bookmark} command (@ref{bookmark})
to create a bookmark for that site. If you logged in with a username
and password, Yafc will ask if you want to save the password in
the bookmarks file. If you do, be sure it isn't world readable.
By using the @code{auto_bookmark} keyword in the configuration
file, Yafc can create bookmarks automatically for new sites.

The bookmarks are available to the @code{open} command, with tab
completion. You can also specify a bookmark name/alias on the command
line when starting yafc. Bookmark names/aliases can be abbreviated, as
long as it isn't ambiguous.

The autologin information is stored in much the same way as in the
@file{~/.netrc} file used by standard ftp(1), except that the macdef option
is not supported.

An entry must begin with a @code{machine}, @code{default} or @code{local}
keyword.

@menu
* Bookmark keywords::          keywords for bookmarks
* Bookmark examples::          examples
@end menu

@c ======================================================

@node Bookmark keywords, Bookmark examples, , Bookmarks
@section Bookmark keywords

@table @samp

@item machine
Specify the hostname to connect to or a domainname. The hostname
can be a valid FTP URL, including username, password, etc. In that case
there is no need to specify the corresponding keywords. Using the URL syntax
is the only way to specify a non-standard port.

Domainnames should begin with a period, as in @code{.kth.se}. This will match
any hostname on that domain, except for hostnames explicitly mentioned with
another @samp{machine} keyword.
You can not specify an alias name for a domain entry.

To bookmark a ssh connection, use @code{ssh://hostname} or
@code{sftp://hostname} (they are equivalent).

@item alias
Specifies another (verbose) name for the bookmark, like @samp{ruby} instead of
@samp{ftp.netlab.co.jp}. This is the name that will be shown
in the tab completion list. Valid only after a @samp{machine} statement.

@item local                       
If an entry begins with @samp{local}, it specifies how to login to all
local machines. Local machines are unqualified hostnames (ie,
hostnames without a period.)

This can be overridden with an entry for a specific machine.

@item default
The @samp{default} entry is used when no other @samp{machine}
or @samp{local} keyword matched. It can be used to login anonymously
to all unknown sites.

@item login
Specify the username.

@item anonymous
Try an anonymous login, uses @var{anon_password}.

@item password
Specify the password, if required.

@item account
Specify account name. Not fully supported, anyone using it?

@item cwd
This keyword specifies a startup directory on the remote server.
Yafc changes the current directory when logged in.

@item prot
The prot keyword sets the Kerberos data protection level.
Valid protection levels are @code{safe}, @code{clear} and @code{private}.

This is a no-op if not compiled with Kerberos.

@item mech
List the preferred security mechanisms to use. This is the same as
@code{default_mechanism}, except it is only used for this machine.

@item passive
Boolean option requiring an argument (true/false). If true, use passive
mode in data transfers, regardless of the value of @code{use_passive_mode}
in the configuration file.

@item noupdate
If this keyword is specified, the bookmark will not be updated when a
connection is closed. The @code{noupdate} flag can be toogled with the
command @xref{bookmark}.

@end table

@c ============================================================

@node Bookmark examples, , Bookmark keywords, Bookmarks
@section Bookmark examples

@table @code

@item default login anonymous
As default, login as 'anonymous' and prompt for password

@item default anonymous
As default, login as 'anonymous' and automatically supply your email
address as password.

@item local login mhe
Login as 'mhe' on all machines on the local network (machines w/o a '.')

@item machine .foo.bar.se login niels
Login as 'niels' on all hosts on .foo.bar.se domain

@item machine dent.foo.bar.se login slartibartfast cwd ~/fjord
Login as 'slartibartfast' on dent.foo.bar.se and start in directory ~/fjord

@item machine slartibartfast@@dent.foo.bar.se/fjord
Identical to the example above, but using an ftp URL instead

@item machine ftp.gurka.com:4711 anonymous
Login as 'anonymous' and automagically supply password from
anon_password, connect on non-standard port 4711

@item machine mayer.physto.se anonymous cwd /pub/yafc alias yafc
Login anonymously to machine mayer.physto.se with other name yafc

@end table
