@node The shell, Configuration, Invoking Yafc, top
@chapter The shell

Yafc presents the user with an internal shell.

@menu
* Yafc commands::               all yafc internal commands
* Command redirection::
* Nohup transfers::             
@end menu

@c =====================================================
@include yafc_commands.texi

@c =====================================================
@node Command redirection, Nohup transfers, Yafc commands, The shell
@section Command redirection

Command redirection is available, using the conventional shell syntax.
However, there are some restrictions. Firstly, input redirection is not supported.
Also asynchronous mode is not supported.

Examples:

@table @samp

@item @code{cat foo.txt > foo}
Will copy the remote file foo.txt to the local file foo.

@item @code{ls -l | less}
Will list all the files in long format, paged through less.

@item @code{ls -l | emacs &}
This won't work, you can't use asynchronous mode.

@item @code{open < login.foo}
Input redirection is not supported.

@end table

@c =====================================================
@node Nohup transfers, , Command redirection, The shell
@section Nohup transfers

Get and Put has an option @samp{--nohup}.

When given, Yafc will fork itself
to the background and continue to transfer the specified files,
allowing you to use your shell or even logout. Output
is redirected to the file @file{~/.yafc/nohup/nohup.pid}, or to file specified
by option @samp{--logfile=@var{FILE}}. 
   
If you have tagged any files (with the @code{tag} command, see @ref{tag}), add
the option @samp{--tagged} to the get command to transfer those files too.
There is an equivalent command for local files and put, namely @code{ltag}.

Yafc will also enter nohup mode upon receipt of @code{SIGHUP}.

Set @var{nohup_mailaddress} in the yafcrc file to a valid mail address if you
want to receive a mail notifying you when the transfer is complete.
