\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename yafc.info
@settitle Yafc
@setchapternewpage odd
@c %**end of header

@include version.texi

@ifinfo
@format
START-INFO-DIR-ENTRY
* Yafc: (yafc).  Yet Another FTP Client
END-INFO-DIR-ENTRY
@end format
This file documents Yafc version @value{VERSION}

Copyright @copyright{} 1999-2000 Martin Hedenfalk

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through TeX and print the
results, provided the printed document carries copying permission
notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
(this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by the copyright holder.
@end ifinfo

@c  This title page illustrates only one of the
@c  two methods of forming a title page.

@titlepage
@title Yafc -- Yet Another FTP Client
@subtitle version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author Martin Hedenfalk

@c  The following two commands
@c  start the copyright page.
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 1999-2000 Martin Hedenfalk

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by the copyright holder.
@end titlepage

@node Top, Overview, , (dir)

@ifinfo
This document describes @sc{Yafc}, an interactive interface to the FTP protocol.
This document applies to version @value{VERSION}.
@end ifinfo

@menu
* Overview::                    Introduction to Yafc
* Invoking Yafc::               How to start Yafc
* The shell::                   
* Configuration::               How to configure Yafc
* Bookmarks::                   
* Kerberos::                    How Yafc uses Kerberos
* Proxy::                       Proxy support
@end menu

@c *****************************************************
@include yafc_intro.texi

@c *****************************************************
@include yafc_invoke.texi

@c *****************************************************
@include yafc_shell.texi

@c *****************************************************
@node Configuration, Bookmarks, The shell, top
@chapter Configuration

Yafc will parse a system-wide configuration file,
@file{/etc/yafcrc}, first. Then, personal settings are read from
@file{~/.yafc/yafcrc} (overriding the global ones). If none of those
files exists, internal defaults will be used.

The @samp{--dump-rc} option of Yafc can be used to dump the default
configuration file to standard output. You can create your own config
file with the command @code{yafc --dum-rc > ~/.yafc/yafcrc}. You can
customize it with your favourite editor, it should be quite self-explaining if
you read the comments.

Yafc also looks for @file{~/.netrc}, and reads autologin information from
that file. @ref{read_netrc}. This file is also used by the standard ftp
client.

Yafc uses the Readline library to read commands from the terminal, and
Readline can be configured via the @file{~/.inputrc} file. In this file
you can put keybindings and Readline-oriented options. You can use
@kbd{$yafc} for conditional parsing of the @file{~/.inputrc} file.
A sample inputrc file is included in the distribution.

@menu
* Keywords::                    Configuration keywords used
* Autologin::                   Writing autologin entries
* Aliases::                     Writing aliases
* Colors::                      Using colors
@end menu

@c =====================================================
@include yafc_keywords.texi

@c =====================================================
@include yafc_autologin.texi

@c =====================================================
@include yafc_alias.texi

@c =====================================================
@include yafc_color.texi

@c *****************************************************
@node Bookmarks, Kerberos, Configuration, top
@chapter Bookmarks 

Just like creating bookmarks for web pages in a browser, you can create
bookmarks for ftp sites in Yafc. These can later be used for
autologin (@ref{autologin}) to that site.

When connected to an ftp site, use the @code{bookmark} command to
create a bookmark for that site. If you logged in with a username
and password, Yafc will ask if you want to save the password in
the bookmarks file. If you do, be sure it isn't world readable.
By using the @code{auto_bookmark} keyword in the configuration
file, Yafc can create bookmarks automatically for new sites.

The bookmarks are available to the @code{open} command, with tab
completion.


@c *****************************************************
@node Kerberos, Proxy, Bookmarks, top
@chapter Kerberos

If Yafc is compiled with Kerberos, it tries to authenticate using Kerberos 4
without sending the password in cleartext. For anonymous logins, Kerberos
is never used. The default protection level for data connections is
clear, ie no encryption on transfers. Use the command @code{prot} (@ref{prot}), to change the
data protection level. Valid arguments are @code{clear}, @code{safe}, and @code{private}.
Note that confidential protection is not supported in Kerberos 4.
You can use the @samp{prot} keyword (@pxref{Autologin keywords}) in the 
configuration file to automagically set the protection level for autologin.

@c *****************************************************
@node Proxy, , Kerberos, top
@chapter Proxy

Documentation missing...

The proxy support is untested. Please report.

@c *****************************************************
@contents

@bye
